README.adoc, before:

= vmware_horizon-exporter - Export metrics from VMWare Horizon to Prometheus
:source-highlighter: rouge
:rouge-style: gruvbox
:stylesheet: asciidoc.css
:toc: left

== Preface

https://www.vmware.com/products/horizon.html[VMWare Horizon^] is a widely used VDI solution in an enterprise environment.
To provide reporting information, this tool exports several metrics from the VMWare Horizon REST API for https://prometheus.io[Prometheus^]

== Repositories

* Primary development repository: https://git.ypbind.de/cgit/vmware_horizon-exporter/
* Backup repository: https://github.com/Bobobo-bo-Bo-bobo/vmware_horizon-exporter

== Build requirements

As a Rust program, a current stable Rust build environment is required. Additionally `pkg-config` and the development file of `libssl` are required to build the `reqwest` crate.

== Usage
=== VMWare Horizon permissions

The user account used to fetch the data require some read-only access:

[cols="<,<",options="header",]
|===
|_Permission_ |_Note_
|`FEDERATED_SESSIONS_VIEW` |Access to session information
|`GLOBAL_CONFIG_VIEW` |General access to configuration information
|`MACHINE_VIEW` |Access to machine and session information
|`POOL_VIEW` |Access to pool information
|===

=== Using a proxy server
The environment variable `https_proxy` or `HTTPS_PROXY` can be used to define a proxy server to use.

=== Command line options

[cols="<,<",options="header",]
|===
|_Option_ |_Dwscription_
|`-D` / `--debug` |Enable debug output
|`-V` / `--version` |Show version information
|`-Q` / `--quiet` |Only log warning and error messages
|`-c <cfg>` / `--config=<cfg>` |Path to configuration file
|`-h` / `--help` |Show help text
|`-l <addr>` / `--listen=<addr>` |Address to listen for metric scrapes. Default: `localhost:9133`
|===

=== Configuration file
The configuration file is expected in the YAML format, e.g.:

[source,yaml]
----
---
horizon_api:
    url: 'https://vmware.hori.zon'
    insecure_ssl: false
    user: 'exporter_user'
    domain: 'ad_domain'
    password: 'ItsSoFluffyImGonnaDIE!'
    only_pools:
        - 'only_pool_1_uuid'
        - 'only_pool_2_uuid'
    skip_pools:
        - 'exclude_this_pool_uuid'
    pool_uuid_map:
        - pool_1_uuid: 'My pool number 1'
----

The `horizon_api` dictionary contains information about accessing the Horizon REST API:

[width="100%",cols="<34%,<41%,<25%",options="header",]
|===
|_Option_ |_Dwscription_ |_Mandatory_ 
|`url` |URL of the Horizon server |`yes`
|`insecure_ssl` |Disable SSL certificate verification |`no`
|`user` |Username for authentication |`yes`
|`domain` |AD-Domain of the user for authentication |`yes`
|`password` |Password of the user used for authentication |`yes`
|`only_pools` |Limit metrics to list of pool *UUIDs* |`no`
|`skip_pools` |Report usage for pools _except_ for this list of pool *UUIDs* |`no`
|`pool_uuid_map` |Dictionary to map pool UUIDs to a name |`no`
|===

NOTE: Pools are referenced by their UUIDs because there is not other unique way to identify pools. Name and display names are not unique.

NOTE: `pool_uuid_map` replaces the pool UUIDs label in the metric output `pool=...` with a user generated string.

Commit message:

Documentation for ca_file and timeout value
Order options in documentation

README.adoc, after:

= vmware_horizon-exporter - Export metrics from VMWare Horizon to Prometheus
:source-highlighter: rouge
:rouge-style: gruvbox
:stylesheet: asciidoc.css
:toc: left

== Preface

https://www.vmware.com/products/horizon.html[VMWare Horizon^] is a widely used VDI solution in an enterprise environment.
To provide reporting information, this tool exports several metrics from the VMWare Horizon REST API for https://prometheus.io[Prometheus^]

== Repositories

* Primary development repository: https://git.ypbind.de/cgit/vmware_horizon-exporter/
* Backup repository: https://github.com/Bobobo-bo-Bo-bobo/vmware_horizon-exporter

== Build requirements

As a Rust program, a current stable Rust build environment is required. Additionally `pkg-config` and the development file of `libssl` are required to build the `reqwest` crate.

== Usage
=== VMWare Horizon permissions

The user account used to fetch the data require some read-only access:

[cols="<,<",options="header",]
|===
|_Permission_ |_Note_
|`FEDERATED_SESSIONS_VIEW` |Access to session information
|`GLOBAL_CONFIG_VIEW` |General access to configuration information
|`MACHINE_VIEW` |Access to machine and session information
|`POOL_VIEW` |Access to pool information
|===

=== Using a proxy server
The environment variable `https_proxy` or `HTTPS_PROXY` can be used to define a proxy server to use.

=== Command line options

[cols="<,<",options="header",]
|===
|_Option_ |_Dwscription_
|`-D` / `--debug` |Enable debug output
|`-V` / `--version` |Show version information
|`-Q` / `--quiet` |Only log warning and error messages
|`-c <cfg>` / `--config=<cfg>` |Path to configuration file
|`-h` / `--help` |Show help text
|`-l <addr>` / `--listen=<addr>` |Address to listen for metric scrapes. Default: `localhost:9133`
|===

=== Configuration file
The configuration file is expected in the YAML format, e.g.:

[source,yaml]
----
---
horizon_api:
    ca_file: /path/to/ca.pem
    domain: 'ad_domain'
    insecure_ssl: false
    only_pools:
        - 'only_pool_1_uuid'
        - 'only_pool_2_uuid'
    password: 'ItsSoFluffyImGonnaDIE!'
    pool_uuid_map:
        - pool_1_uuid: 'My pool number 1'
    timeout: 60
    url: 'https://vmware.hori.zon'
    user: 'exporter_user'
    skip_pools:
        - 'exclude_this_pool_uuid'
----

The `horizon_api` dictionary contains information about accessing the Horizon REST API:

[width="100%",cols="<34%,<41%,<25%",options="header",]
|===
|_Option_ |_Dwscription_ |_Mandatory_ 
|`ca_file` |CA file in PEM format for validation of SSL server certificate if not in system CA store |`no`
|`domain` |AD-Domain of the user for authentication |`yes`
|`insecure_ssl` |Disable SSL certificate verification |`no`
|`only_pools` |Limit metrics to list of pool *UUIDs* |`no`
|`password` |Password of the user used for authentication |`yes`
|`pool_uuid_map` |Dictionary to map pool UUIDs to a name |`no`
|`skip_pools` |Report usage for pools _except_ for this list of pool *UUIDs* |`no`
|`timeout` |HTTP timeout in seconds, default: 60 seconds |`no`
|`url` |URL of the Horizon server |`yes`
|`user` |Username for authentication |`yes`
|===

NOTE: Pools are referenced by their UUIDs because there is not other unique way to identify pools. Name and display names are not unique.

NOTE: `pool_uuid_map` replaces the pool UUIDs label in the metric output `pool=...` with a user generated string.
